“Everybody hurts sometimes”. You must have heard those lyrics either in that exact phrase or some form of it in different songs.

There are many reasons why we struggle with feelings of sadness. It can be because of the loss of a loved one, a breakup, or even a bad day at work.

Whatever the reason, it is important to note that feelings of sadness are temporary. In this article, I will share some thoughts on how to get over dejection.

Acknowledge your feelings
The first step to getting over low spirits is to acknowledge that you are feeling sad.

People tend to push their feelings aside or deny them, even though this can make things worse.

Rather than do that, allow yourself to feel sad and accept that everyone gets their share of blues.

Reach out to someone
Reach out to a trusted friend, family member, or therapist and talk about what you’re feeling.

Sometimes talking to someone can help you process your emotions and feel better. Feelings of sadness might tempt you to withdraw from others but remember, you’re not alone!

Practice Self-care
Even when you’re feeling down, ensure you are taking care of your body and mind.

Get enough sleep, eat healthy foods, and exercise often. If possible treat yourself to something you enjoy, such as a favorite meal or a movie.

Engage your mind and body
Engaging in activities you enjoy can distract from feelings of sadness and put a smile on your face.

So do things that used to bring you joy; read books, go for a walk, or play a game with friends

Reject negative thoughts
When we’re feeling down, it is easy to allow our minds to drown in feelings of worthlessness.

But these thoughts are often distorted and not based on reality. Try asking yourself: “Is there any evidence to support this thought?”.

Instead, replace negative thoughts with more positive ones. Try to remind yourself of what is working, and things you’re grateful for.

Live in the moment
When we’re feeling sad, it can be easy to get caught up in worries about the past or the future.

Training your mind to focus on the present can reduce anxiety and help you stay grounded.

Breathe. You’ve got this

Set small, achievable goals
True, following all the advice might leave you overwhelmed and may not even be realistic.

So focus on what you can do, one thing at a time. You could try going out for a walk once, then three times a week, then every day.

Or you could try reading a book, or even tell yourself to reject as much negative thinking as you can.

Every effort counts!

Accept professional help
While the tips mentioned above can be helpful, sometimes it’s best to seek help from those trained to give it. Seek a therapist or some other qualified professional when appropriate.

Feeling sad is a normal part of the human experience, but it doesn’t have to control your life. It’s not easy, but you can be intentional about feeling better. Get help if you need it. Reject negative thoughts. And protect and nourish your mind and body. There’s a ray of sunshine just in front of you!

Disclaimer: This post is for informative purposes only and does not represent professional or health advice.
