Throughout human history, wars have played a significant role in shaping our world. There have always been different reasons for wars, ranging from a desire for conquest and domination to struggles to create and maintain peace (ironic eh?). They have caused the rise and fall of empires, redrawn national borders, and altered the course of human events. For the sake of non-nerds, I decided to do a deep dive into a few of the conflicts that have had a profound impact on human history. A few of these are actually debated for their credibility. Sadly without BBC coverage of the Trojan War how are we to know for certain if Athena didn't show up to give her blessing to Odysseus? Anyways, let’s get into it:

1. The Trojan War (c. 1184 BC)

“Come on man” I know, I know, please hear me out. The Trojan War was fought between the Greeks and the Trojans, as described in Homer’s epic poem, the Iliad. The war was also referenced by trusted historians such as Herodotus and Eratosthenes so at the time it was generally assumed to be a real event (spiced to infinity by Homer though). While the war’s historical accuracy is debatable, it has had a significant cultural impact and is regarded as a defining moment in ancient Greek history.

2. The Punic Wars (264–146 BC)

The Punic Wars were a series of three wars fought between Rome and Carthage, a powerful city-state in North Africa. A long, bitter war fought over land and sea for forty-three long years that eventually ended in Rome’s dominance over the Mediterranean and paved the way for its eventual expansion into an empire. Read more about the Punic Wars here

3. The Hundred Years’ War (1337–1453)

Now here’s one you don’t hear about every day. It’s not rare to find wars stretch out for years or even decades but here is one fought for 116 years (ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTEEN YEARS), only interrupted by truces now and then. Originating in France, which granted at the time was the major power in western Europe, it eventually grew beyond the French borders as five generations of kings battled over control of French territories. The war was notable for its impact on the development of English and French nationalism and for the introduction of new military technologies such as the longbow. Here’s further reading on the Hundred Years War

4. The Thirty Years’ War (1618–1648)

The Thirty Years’ War started in 1618 as a ‘holy’ war (lol) between the Catholic and Protestant states that formed the ‘Holy’ Roman Empire. As the war progressed however, it became less about religion and more political. What was not religious though was the devastating nature of the conflict in European history, resulting in millions of deaths and significant political and social changes across the continent. Here is an extended read on the Thirty Years War

5. The Napoleonic Wars (1803–1815)

The Napoleonic Wars were a series of conflicts fought by France under Napoleon 1 Bonaparte against a coalition of European powers. The wars were marked by Napoleon’s military genius and led to significant political changes in Europe, including the creation of new nations and the redrawing of national borders.

6. The American Revolution (1775–1783)

The American Revolution was a war fought between the British Empire and its thirteen North American colonies, which wanted independence because they were being taxed by the Parliament of Great Britain, a body in which they had no direct representation. The American colonies were allowed a level of autonomy in their internal affairs up until the 1760s when the British Parliament passed a number of acts that were intended to bring the American colonies under more direct rule from Britain. The war led to the formation of the United States and inspired revolutionary movements against the British Empire around the world.

7. The American Civil War (1861–1865)

The American Civil War was fought between the United States of America (“the North) and the Confederate States of America (“the South), a group of southern states formed by seceded slaves that sought independence. The war resulted in the abolition of slavery and the preservation of the United States as a single nation. More on the American Civil War

8. The Vietnam War (1955–1975)

The Vietnam War was a conflict fought between communist forces in North Vietnam and the government of South Vietnam, with the support of the United States and other anti-communist allies. The war was notable for its impact on American society and the anti-war movement, as well as for its lasting effects on Vietnam and the surrounding region. Read more

9. World War I (1914–1918)

The first of two of the most bone-chilling, devastating wars of all time, World War I was a global conflict that involved most of the major world powers. The numbers make for sober reading: 9 million soldiers killed in battle, over 20 million wounded, and about5 million civilians killed as a result of the war stretching on, hunger, and disease. That’s not the end of it though, as millions more died due to genocide, with the 1918 Spanish flu pandemic worsened by the movement of soldiers during the war. The war also led to significant political and social changes, including the downfall of several European empires.

10. World War II (1939–1945)

You’d think the world will learn it’s lesson from the irreparable damage caused by World War 1, but just 20 years on there was another global conflict, fought primarily in Europe and Asia. World War II was by far the deadliest conflict in history, resulting in an estimated 70 to 85 million fatalities, mostly among civilians including six million Jews in the Holocaust. The war led to significant political and social changes, including the creation of the United Nations and the beginning of the Cold War but that’s a story for another day… Read further about the two world wars here

Wars have been a defining feature of human history, shaping the world we live in today. Some have had far more reaching effects that others but humans never seem to learn, do they?
