Cooking. For some of you, it's a fun and fulfilling activity you look forward to because you can whip up a classic every time you put on an apron.
For the rest of us though, let's say the fun is lost somewhere between putting the stove on and eating the meal. Everyone has indeed had their fair share of kitchen mishaps, but for the special ones among us, it's something that happens every other day (no Gusteau, NOT everyone can cook).
Something always seems to go wrong; burnt rice today, an overcooked steak the next day, and over-salted sauces every day.
If this is you and you're wondering how to throw away less of your failed cooking creations then perhaps you are in the right place (emphasis on perhaps). 
With just a few simple tips and tricks, I  might be able to show you how to turn your cooking disasters into culinary triumphs.
Salvage burnt food.
If focus is not one of your strongest attributes, then you might have a history of burnt food to show for it. If you burn your food, don't throw it away just yet. Cut off the burnt parts and salvage what's left. For example, if you burn the bottom of a pot of rice, remove the good rice on top and mix it with fresh rice. You'll end up with a tasty, slightly smoky rice dish.
Experiment
With spices and herbs. Spices and herbs can add flavor and complexity to any dish. If you feel like your dish is lacking in flavor, experiment with different herbs and spices until you find the perfect combination. There is no hard and fast rule when it comes to cooking.
So long as you're using edible ingredients, the results will always be edible. So don't feel pressed to follow Gordon Ramsey's recipes to the letter. Feel free to sometimes try something different. You might discover something beautiful for your tastebuds.
Embrace your mistakes. 
I used to be crestfallen when I make mistakes but then I thought, who cares man? Now I just own it. Besides, mistakes can lead to delicious results. For example, if you unintentionally add too much salt to a dish, you can balance it out with a squeeze of lemon juice or a pinch of sugar.
Take notes of your mistakes
If you make a mistake in the kitchen, take note of what went wrong and how you fixed it. This way, you can avoid making the same mistake in the future and improve your cooking skills
Repurpose leftovers 
Leftovers are a great opportunity to get creative in the kitchen. Don't reheat them, repurpose them into a new dish. For example, you can shred leftover roasted chicken and use it in a salad or sandwich. And you can transform leftover rice into delicious egg-fried rice
That's all I've got people. If you need anything more I guess you'll have to speak with the professionals. 
Anyways, in summary, cooking disasters can be frustrating, but they don't have to be the end of the world. If you're creative and not afraid to experiment, you can turn cooking disasters into culinary triumphs.
So next time you make a mistake in the kitchen, don't panic. Embrace the opportunity to get creative and see what delicious results you can come up with.
