Congratulations, You’re an adult! Now you can pay bills, do taxes, and suffer at a 9–5 for the next 40 years. Aren’t you thrilled??? Well, I’m not. I’ve been ‘adulting’ for about 7 years now and I can confirm I’m not thrilled in any way.

“When I grow up, I’ll…”. I couldn’t shut up about all the things I could do when I was finally free. When I was finally a grownup. I blame the adults then. Should have stopped me from saying that but all they did was chuckle and I thought they were also excited for me.


But that is by the side. I’ve been doing a lot of thinking recently and I stumbled upon a discovery. It might be difficult for you guys to take so I’m going to put it as straight as possible (Don’t scream):

Being a child is better than being an adult and adulthood is overrated.

I’m going to explain why I came to this shocking conclusion. But before then I’ll like to assure you I didn’t think of this while sobbing in the restroom at work.

Things are so simple for kids. It’s easy for them to make friends, and no responsibilities mean playtime is every time and they’re serious about it… they run around with friends, play house, and dream about what they’ll do when they grow up (insert chuckle).

They skip about completely naked without a care in the world. And when they finally get around to putting on clothes, they don’t care about how it looks on them.

Random outfits out of sync with the occasion, odd socks with mismatching colors… Name it and there’s a fair chance you’ll have it.

And they do all this without knowing (or caring) where their next meal will come from. A good tantrum should be enough to get someone to sort that out.

Now compare that with being an adult. One day you’re dreaming about being a grownup, the next you’re living it but somehow not living the dream.

Storybooks evolve into bills and tax invoices, and Excel replaces video games.

There seems to be a bill to pay the moment you step out of the house. And you get to work finding out to your dismay your colleagues are still there.

Not so long ago you were resenting your mom for her strict bedtimes but look at you now. You’re in the office at 11 craving the comfort of your bed.

If you’re an adult reading this, do not despair, all is not lost. There is still time to embrace your inner child.

Loosen up! Turn off the news and watch some cartoons. Play video games and enjoy some of your former favorite treats. Goof around with your friends and try not to take yourself too seriously. Spend more time with the professionals, kids.

There are quite a few benefits of being ‘childish’ as an adult too (apart from the obvious). Being playful has been shown to relieve stress, improve brain function and stimulate the mind and boost creativity.

So don’t let your kids hog all the fun! Embrace your inner child today and you’ll be glad you did.
